Students FAQs - HELB
Twitter
Facebook-f
Youtube
Linkedin
Self Serve
Compliance Certificate
Get-In-Touch
Products
Repay Loan
Online Services
Partner With Us
Resources & Downloads
Home
FAQs
Students FAQs
QUICK LINKS
HELB PRODUCTS
LEADERSHIP
Frequently Asked Questions
Student FAQs.
THE HIGHER EDUCATION STUDENT CENTERED FUNDING MODEL (NEW FUNDING MODEL) FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS [FAQS]
Information Guide Frequently Asked Questions.
How do I apply for Higher Education Financing (HEF)?
Visit our website or
hef.co.ke
to access the
Student Portal
and click on “register” to create an account.
Enter your National Identification number or KCSE Index number (for a minor).
Enter a valid email address and password and click “register”.
You have successfully created an account. Check your email (Inbox or Spam/ Junk) to activate your account and log in after email activation.
Enter a valid Telephone number where a verification code will be sent. If the verification code expires, click resend button to get a new verification code.
Fill your profile & update your Biodata.
Give consent to collection of your personal data.
NOTE: Read through the consent form to understand why we are collecting your personal data then tick the checkbox to agree with terms of use.
Fill in your personal details then save to continue.
When all details are complete, submit your scholarship/loan request.
Consent to processing of your data by Accepting the loan terms and conditions.
Update your guarantor details.
Provide loan payment information as per the fields provided (Bank or mobile payment)
Submit your loan application.
What do I require to apply for the Higher Education Financing (HEF)?
A valid email address for the applicant (Student)
Valid telephone number (must be registered in your name to apply for a loan)
KCPE and KCSE index numbers and year of examination
Passport size photo
Copy of your National ID (for loan application)
College/University admission letter
Your parents’ registered telephone number
Your parents’ national ID number
Death certificate if any of your parent is deceased.
Your birth certificate.
Two guarantors’ (Can be your parents) ID numbers and registered telephone numbers (for loan application)
Copy of the sponsorship letter if you were sponsored in Secondary school.
How do I apply for subsequent loan using USSD?
Dial *642# and select login option.
Enter your PIN to login.
Select the loan application option.
Choose your application level: Degree, Diploma or Certificate.
Select academic year and click send.
How do I apply for Undergraduate Subsequent loan using the HELB mobile App?
Download the HELB App from Google Play Store .
Note.
There has been an upgrade on the HELB App, therefore ensure to upgrade your App.
Register using your phone number to generate a PIN which you will use to log in.
Ensure the mobile number is registered under your name. Please NOTE that mobile numbers not registered in the student’s name will not be able to proceed with the application.
Read, understand, and click to accept the license agreement.
Enter your first name as it appears on your national ID card, the ID number and valid email address to complete registration.
Click on the “loans” tab and choose Degree. Then click “apply” on the Undergraduate subsequent loan.
Read and understand the process tutorial and proceed to read the financial literacy guide.
Click on get started to start the application process.
Enter your phone number which should be registered in your name and national id number to verify that you are the owner of that number.
Read and understand the loan terms and condition and agree to proceed.
Answer the financial literacy questions and scroll down to view results and click “proceed”.
Select your preferred loan payment option.
Click request loan to view and verify your loan details.
Click “submit” to complete the loan application. A pop-up message will appear to show that you have successfully applied. The loan serial number will also be displayed.
At later dates, you will receive other notifications on awards and disbursements of upkeep and tuition loans and where applicable, bursary.
How do I apply for TVET Subsequent Loan using the HELB Mobile App?
Ensure the mobile number is registered under your name. Please
NOTE
that mobile numbers not registered in the student’s name will not be able to proceed with the application.
Click on the “
loans
” tab and choose Certificate/ Diploma. Then click “
apply
” on the TVET second and subsequent loan.
Answer the financial literacy questions and scroll down to view results and click “
proceed
Click “
submit
” to complete the loan application. A pop-up message will appear to show that you have successfully applied. The loan serial number will also be displayed.
How do I access my funds through MPESA Wallet?
The HELB loan mobile payment option is currently available on Mpesa, below is the procedure on how you can access and withdraw the funds from HELB Mini App.
Download the
MPESA App
from
Google App Playstore
or
Apple App Store
Huawei App gallery
Register on the
using your
MPESA
registered phone number, and make sure you are using data bundles from
Safaricom.
Login and go to the home page, then Categories, and to the Education tab.
Select
HELB
from Education tab.
Mini app.
Sign in using your
registered phone number, and you will receive a verification code via
SMS
for login.
Once you log in, kindly click on the
home page
tab to withdraw your funds to your
using the
withdraw button
on the page.
How do I access my funds through USSD?
Dial *642# and select “login” option.
Enter your personal details to Login.
Select “withdraw funds”
Select “upkeep” then select the amount to withdraw.
You will receive a confirmation message of the funds deposited in your Mpesa Account.
Do I need to submit my phyisical application form?
NO
HELB applications are paperless and you are not required to print any form. Once you have completed your application on the portal/ HELB mobile app, a confirmation SMS with a loan application
serial number
is the evidence that you have applied. Kindly ensure that you save the SMS for future reference.
Do I need to pay any fee during application?
HELB does not charge any fee to access the loan application, report any form of extortion to the authorities.
#KaaChonjo
How can I get in touch with HELB?
Should you require further support, please email us on
ContactCentre@helb.co.ke
or call us on
0711052000.
cmsmasters © 2026 / All Rights Reserved
filipino-leaders-respond-philippines-becoming-us
katies-grandmother-alzheimers-disease-katies-grandfather
read-excerpt-time-travelers-guide-toelizabethan
draw-line-representing-rise-line-representing-run-line
select-correct-answerwhich-sentence-describes-romantic
greatest-common-factor-4k-18k4-12242k4k
minimum-conductor-ampacity-four-1200w-240v-1phase
best-describes-difference-socialism-communismthe
read-excerpt-gilgamesh-new-englishversionenkidu-said
opposition-asian-immigrants-led-1907-gentlemans
many-indigenous-peoples-treat-land-naturethey-used-land
surface-area-rectangular-prism-base-5-inches-6-inches
read-passage-animal-farmin-april-animal-farm-proclaimed
i-interested-drawing-painting-make-sculpturewhich-best
read-excerpt-choreographers-matter-life-intelligencewith
givenp-angles-xyz-rst-vertical-anglesq-angles-xyz-rst
making-eye-contact-teacher-writing-questions-notes
step-2-creating-effective-assignment-notebook
benefits-drawbacks-fifteenth-amendment
best-describes-thebrain-trustfranklin-roosevelt-promised