Undergraduate Loans - HELB
Twitter
Facebook-f
Youtube
Linkedin
Self Serve
Compliance Certificate
Get-In-Touch
Products
Repay Loan
Online Services
Partner With Us
Resources & Downloads
Home
HELB Products
HELB Loans
Undergraduate Loans
QUICK LINKS
LEADERSHIP
These loans are for students pursuing their studies in Public or Chartered Private Universities within the East African Community, placed either through the Kenya Universities and Colleges Central Placement Service (KUCCPS), Self-sponsored, Parallel and Module II Students studying for a Bachelor’s Degree only. Pre-University, Certificate, Diploma or Postgraduate students are not eligible to apply for this loan. The loan attracts interest of 4% and Kshs. 1,000 ledger per year. Students are advised to apply for the loan at least one month before the opening date to allow ample time for processing.
Type of Loan Application
There are
two
types of undergraduate loan applications:
First Time Application-This is for applicants who are applying for the first time.
Second & Subsequent Application-This is for applicants who are applying for the second, third, fourth time as per the program duration.
Note:
The number of loans one is eligible for depends on the program duration. For example, one is given loan 4 times for a 4-year program or 5 times for a 5-year programme.
How to apply for a HELB Loan as a First Time Applicant:
Visit our website or
hef.co.ke
to access the
Student Portal
and click on “register” to create an account.
Confirm whether you have your National ID and enter your ID number. Enter your KCSE Index number if you don’t have a National ID.
Enter a valid email address and password and click “register”.
You have successfully created an account. Check your email (Inbox or Spam/ Junk) to activate your account and log in after email activation.
Enter a valid Telephone number where a verification code will be sent. If the verification code expires, click resend button to get a new verification code.
Fill your profile & update your Biodata.
Give consent to collection of your personal data.
Read through the consent form to understand why we are collecting your personal data then tick the checkbox to agree with terms of use.
Fill in your personal details then save to continue.
When all details are complete, submit your scholarship/loan request.
Consent to processing of your data by Accepting the loan terms and conditions.
Update your guarantor details.
Provide loan payment information as per the fields provided (Bank or mobile payment)
Submit your loan application.
Click here to download the HEF application guide
Please ensure that you read through the consent form to understand why we are collecting your personal data before you tick the checkbox to agree. View
HELB Data Privacy Statement
It is recommended that students prudently manage their HELB loans once disbursed to cater for Tuition, books, stationery, accommodation, and subsistence.
Requirements for Undergraduate & TVET Applications:
Applicant’s valid email address and a valid telephone number;
Applicant’s KCPE and KCSE index numbers and year of examination;
Applicant’s Passport size photo (in jpeg/jpg/png);
Applicant’s copy of the National ID/Maisha Card (both sides in PDF);
Applicant’s valid bank details or valid MPESA number (registered under the applicant’s name and ID number);
Parents’ National ID and registered telephone number;
Copy of Parent’s death certificate if deceased (in PDF);
Applicant’s birth certificate in PDF (if applying as a minor);
Two guarantors’ ID numbers and registered telephone numbers (Can be parents); and
Copy of the sponsorship letter (in PDF) if sponsored in Secondary school.
How to apply as a second and Subsequent applicant
If you were awarded Scholarship and/or Loan in the previous Academic Year, you may apply for the Second and Subsequent application by dialing
*642#
on your mobile phone or download the
HELB Mobile App
from Google Play store or use
MPESA Mini App
Share on:
Looking For Something?
How to Self-Serve
Student Service Centre
Huduma Centre
Student FAQs
cmsmasters © 2026 / All Rights Reserved
example-unintentional-tort
passage-kansasnebraska-act-kansasentered-union-free
sentence-uses-underlined-word-correctlygladys-wanted
scale-drawing-made-enlarge-picture-using-scale-factor-3
following-components-scene-sizeup-excepta-gathering
beginning-feldman-left-behind-open-basket-cash-often
read-excerpt-strange-case-dr-jekylland-mr-hydetwelve
consider-statement-theres-no-gravity-space-statement
read-excerpt-walt-whitmans-poem-i-hear-america
function-y60x-relates-y-time-hours-takes-michael-travel
read-excerpt-hokusais-great-wavehokusai-taken-colour
three-main-factors-highly-influence-incidents-involving
read-passage-essay-mansedate-quiet-comparing-liesformed
amy-sits-circle-groupshe-notes-inher-hand-weeks-careful
read-excerpt-1882-sharecroppingcontract-answer
underlined-stage-directions-suggest-women-mrshale-mrs
gwendolyn-slept-2-hours-less-normalfor-last-3-nightsif
read-excerpt-gilgamesh-new-englishversiongilgamesh-felt
select-correct-answerwhich-following-aspects-jasons-life
statement-correctly-describes-senatethere-total-fifty